=head1 Usage

=head2 What is a continuity?

When you enter RAL, you will see several different
continuities. A continuity is like a chat-room or a
sub-forum. The title of a continuity will often give you a
clue as to what its focus of dicsussion is.

=head2 How do I post?

Within each continuity, there is a button labeled "Create a
topic" which allows you to create a new discussion topic
within a continuity. If you find an interesting topic, you
can create a post within that topic by clicking "Reply to
topic" once you have the topic open

=head2 Can I style my posts?

Yes! Posts on RAL can be styled by marking up your post with
the following supported BBCode tags. Marking up text with BBCode is similar
to writing HTML:

=over 8

=item [b] (Bold)

=item [i] (Emphasis)

=item [j] (Computer jargon)

=item [color=C<x>]

C<x> can be any valid HTML color name, hex triplet, rgb() triple, or hsl()
color space

=item [url=C<href>]

C<href> is a URL to a resource on the internet. Protocols other than
http(s): are allowed as well (e.g. ftp)

=back

=head3 Valid BBCode Markdown Examples

	This is [b]bold[/b] text
	[i]This sentence is emphasized[/i]
	My favorite website is [url=https://aol.com]AOL[/url]
	Have you seen my pictures at [url]ftp://ftp.example.com[/url]
	I didn't know this forum supports [color=red]color-coded text![/color]

=head2 What is not allowed?

No spam. That's it.

=head2 Who can I contact about abuse / questions?

L<Pretty Boy Yumi|https://prettyboytellem.com> is the sysop, sole protector
and guardian angel of RAL and can be reached via prayer or by mail:
L<yumi@ral.space|mailto:yumi@ral.space>
