=head1 Advanced Programmer's Interface

Only advanced programmers are allowed to use the Advanced Programmer's
Interface! B<YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED>. If you still think you have the
necessary skill (and courage), continue reading.

=head2 Overview of the API

The RAL API is available within the source tree at C<B4U/api.php>. This is
exposed to the public for everyone to use! By exposing this interface, I
hope to extend the RAL community. Some use cases may be:

=over 8

=item BBS / Telnet

=item Desktop Application

=item SSH

=item Smartphone Application

=item Braile Reader

=back

Here are all of the functions which the API responds to:

=head2 Fetch

Fetches things (i.e. continuities, topics, posts). Pass the relevant
parameters.

=head3 Parameters

All parameters are optional.

=over 8

=item continuity

=item topic

=item format

=item linkify

=back

=head3 Response

Returns the queried material in a format matching the passed C<format>
(currently only HTML may be specified). If no format is passed, the
response will be in JSON form.

=head3 Examples

C<https://ral.space/api?fetch>

Fetches all continuities in the JSON format

C<https://ral.space/api?fetch&continuity=Chat>

Fetches all topics in the [Chat] continuity

C<https://ral.space/api?fetch&continuity=Chat&topic=1&format=html>

Fetches all posts in the [Chat/1] topic and displays them in a basic HTML format

=head2 Verify

Meant for realtime interaction. You can query this instead of doing a
full fetch to just get the relevant post numbers that should be on your
page. If the response differs from your page, you know that your content
is not up-to-date and must be refreshed.

=head3 Parameters

All parameters are optional

=over 8

=item continuity

=item topic

=item mostpost

=back

=head3 Response

Expect a JSON array of numbers which represents the posts in the topic
or continuity you queried.

=head2 Preview

A simple way to format BBCode text into HTML using RAL's specification.

=head3 Parameters

=over 8

=item text

=back

=head3 Response

Expect a fragment of HTML which represents the BBCode text
